# Batch transformation in \<oXygen/\>

You can run an XSLT transformation over multiple XML files inside \<oXygen/\> by configurating a *transformation scenario*, and this document describes how to do that. Other methods for batch transformation are described elsewhere.

1. Create an \<oXygen/\> project with *Project → New project*, and then navigate to the main project directory on your file system. Give your project a name in the configuration dialog.
1. Put all of the input XML in a single subdirectory (of the main project directory) that contains nothing else. Put the XSLT elsewhere. Create an empty subdirectory of the main project directory that is also a child of the project directory, and therefore a sibling of the XML subdirectory. In my test case, the main project directory contains three things, then: 1) the XSLT file (mine is called “script.xsl”); 2) a subdirectory called “xml”, which contains my XML input files; and 3) an empty subdirectory called “out”.
2. In the Project view (if it isn’t open, mouse over the tab on the left side of the \<oXygen/\> window that says “Project”), right-click on the XML directory (not the files in it) and select *Transform → Configure* transformation scenario.
1. In the configuration, set the XML URl to “\${currentFileURL}” (that will select each file in turn, and it should be the default) and the XSL URL to point to your XSLT (use the file icon to the right of the text box to navigate to the XSLT and click on it). In my case, the value of the XSL URL is “\${pdu}/script.xsl” (the editor variable stands for “The URL path to the folder that contains the current project file” (from the documentation of editor variables at <https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/22.0/ug-editor/topics/editor-variables.html>).
1. Click on the Output tab, choose “Save as”, and enter “\${pdu}/out/${cfn}.out”. This says to write the output of transforming each file into a location that begins with the main project directory, moves into its “out” subdirectory, and then creates a new output file that begins with the filename of the file currently being processed without its filename extension (so that an input file like “doc1.xml” becomes just “doc1”). It then appends “.out” to it, to create an output filename of, for example, “doc1.out”. You can call your output file whatever you want, of course, piecing it together by using those editor variables. You can also put the input and output anywhere you want, except that because the transformation will be applied to every file in the input directory, you don’t want anything there except the XML to be transformed.
1. Save the scenario. You can apply it immediately and, in the future, you can right-click on the XML directory and choose *Transform → Apply transformation scenario* to run it.